[Music]
seven things you should never do with an
automatic transmission
at first glance driving a car with an
automatic transmission may seem easier
than driving a manual the interface of
automatic vehicles is often simpler and
new drivers don't have to struggle with
the seemingly unruly stick shift and
clutch this is supposed to allow them to
concentrate on the road better besides
an automatic transmission nails uphill
driving and stop and go traffic but even
though driving an automatic may look
like a walk in the park there are still
some ways you can unwittingly mess up
your transmission so here are seven of
the most dangerous mistakes you can make
when driving an automatic and don't
forget that we have all kinds of useful
videos like this one on our channel so
be sure to subscribe and ring that
notification bell that way you won't
miss any of the daily uploads here on
the bright side of life number seven
don't shift from Drive to reverse before
your car stops moving we've all made
this mistake at least once you're in a
hurry and too impatient to come to a
full and complete stop before you shift
from Drive to reverse or vice versa
but if you think this is harmless I'm
sorry to disappoint you but you can do
some real damage to that transmission
and its components when you shift while
your car is still moving you're using
the transmission itself to stop the car
not the brakes if your brakes were down
replacing them will cost you around $200
but by constantly shifting from Drive to
reverse while the car still rolling get
ready for damage that can run you at
least $2,500 so choice is yours
number six never put your car in park
before it stops completely going off
that last note this one's a similar
blender now if you have a newer car it
probably won't let you make this awful
mistake since recent models use speed
sensors that block this action but if
your car doesn't have this sort of
equipment and you've been guilty of
throwing it in park before the car stops
moving from time to time listen up
whether you're in too much of a hurry or
simply unaware of the danger remember
that you can do irreversible damage to
your transmission the park position is
supposed to keep your car from rolling
away not to stop your car when it's
still moving when your car's in park its
transmission is locked up
therefore the wheels either can't move
at all or they can move but with great
difficulties you see when you throw it
in park a pin locks a transmission
output shaft which connects it to the
wheels of your car but if the car still
rolling when you do this either the
locking pin or the output shaft may
break or become eroded number five don't
put it in neutral at stoplights some
people just don't feel like keeping
their foot on the brake pedal when
stopped at a red light others heard from
experts that when you keep your cart and
drive at a red light you wear out the
transmission in any case it's still
better to keep your car and drive than
to switch it to neutral when stopped at
alight
first of all when your cars in neutral
you don't have as much control over it
so if you need to make some emergency
maneuver you may not be able to execute
it in time
also if you forgot that you've put the
car in neutral and the lights turn green
you'll end up revving the engine and
burning more fuel another strategy some
people use at stoplights is the
emergency brake thinking that it'll save
from gas but the fact is that this is
absolutely unnecessary the amount of
fuel you save isn't even noticeable try
to keep your ignition on the car in
drive and your foot on the brake
whenever you're stopped at a light so
that you have total control over your
vehicle
[Music]
number four don't coast in neutral some
people believe that coasting in neutral
saves them gas I mean it makes sense
you're going downhill so why not put it
in neutral and let gravity take over
well the problem is that cars with
automatic engines are designed in such a
way that they save fuel even if the gear
is in Drive they simply cut the fuel
supply when you're going downhill
secondly letting your car coast in
neutral leaves you with less control
over it you see when you're going
downhill in neutral all you can do is
slow down you won't be able to speed up
if the need arises besides your car's
engine runs at its lowest rpm and the
oil pump works at the slowest when
you're moving in neutral for that reason
the engine doesn't cool down as well as
it should and may fail due to friction
and heat number three never launch your
car from a standstill unless you're in a
NASCAR race never ever launch your car
from a standstill launching is basically
revving up the car while it's still in
neutral and then switching the gear to
drive to accelerate really fast from a
stopped position and if you believe that
some common sense would prevent people
from doing this to their cars think
again plenty of drivers launch their
cars all the time
this causes serious harm to the bands
and clutches of the automatic
transmission when you shift they use
friction to move definite parts and if
you rev in neutral and then immediately
switch to drive these bands and clutches
wear out prematurely even worse than
that if you keep launching your car this
way these parts won't be able to hold
friction anymore as a result the
transmission will begin to slip when
it's in gear clutches and bands are
affordable enough what will cost you a
fortune is taking out the transmission
and tearing it down in order to get to
the parts that need replacing
[Music]
number two avoid keeping the gas tank on
low probably every car owner out there
knows that driving with the gas light on
is a big no-no and still so many of us
are guilty of it sometimes you just
can't get to a gas station other times
you simply don't have the cash but
ignoring the low fuel light may
eventually cost you much more than just
filling your tank up especially if your
car has an automatic transmission to run
properly cars need to have proper fluid
pressure on top of that fuel keeps
different elements of the car lubricated
and helps the engine as well if your
tank is constantly low on fluid these
parts will wear out much faster than
they would normally number one do not
let water get in the transmission if
water gets into the transmission you're
in big trouble even the smallest amount
of water just an ounce can wreak havoc
on your car's transmission to the point
that it needs to be replaced if you're
lucky and notice the problem right away
you'll save a lot of money because the
damage won't be so dramatic the thing is
that when water infiltrates a
transmission it gets absorbed by the
friction lining of the clutches this
causes the glue that connects the
material and the clutch plates to
dissolve some amount of water comes out
of the suspension forming white gummy
masses in different parts of the unit
that's why you can't just flush the unit
to get rid of the water on top of that
the water will cause rust to form on the
metal parts of the transmission the
consequences depend on how fast you
recognize the problem unfortunately the
most common course of action is to
overhaul the transmission
[Music]
are you guilty of any of these mistakes
have you heard of any other driving
habits that can damage an automatic
transmission tell us in the comments
section below give us a thumbs up for
trying to keep your vehicle safe and
sound and spread the message by sending
the video to all the drivers you know
remember to subscribe and join us on the
bright side of life see you next time
[Music]